hello everybody my name is J I'm one of
the expert I eltz teachers here at e to
language if need any help with your
aisle check out our website we have well
let's just say we've done some pretty
good investigative work into the IELTS
and we certainly know how to boost your
band scores right cool
in today's live class were going to
focus on IELTS reading this is
specifically we're going to look at an
IELTS general reading but this is also
applicable to IELTS academic they're
almost identical right almost identical
and the particular question we're
looking at tonight is called match
features which is a feature of both the
general and academic test so let's do
this one so i alt reading has 11
different question types now on test day
you won't get all 11 but you might get
say five or six different question types
you need to be familiar with each of
them the one we're doing tonight as I
mentioned is matching features it's a
tricky one I've got to say this is a
tricky one let me explain it to you this
is what you have to do okay okay okay so
I've managed to squeeze a lot in on one
page now of course on test day what will
happen is you'll have your passages over
here on a separate sort of paper a
separate page and then the questions the
the the the instructions the little
statements the features and lists will
be on on the on another page and this is
your answer sheet here right this is
your answer sheet which will be a
completely different page altogether
I've put it all on one let me explain
what you have to do okay if you get this
type of question which says something
about matching each statement to see up
here in the instructions match each
statement what you first need to do is
look at this statement number one what
does it say it says it helped other
countries develop their own film
industry what's it well down below here
we have a list of country
so what we can do is we can rephrase
this in our mind to make it a lot easier
for us to understand for example we can
say to ourselves if we focus on number
one which country helps other countries
develop their own film industry was it
France that helped other countries
develop their own film industry was a
Germany that helped other countries
develop their own film industry etc
because the answer to this whoops
will be found in the passage and let's
say for example that the answer is China
right it says in the text here that
China helped develop other countries
film industries and you say okay cool
it's China
so that's J now that's question 1 so
what we do on our answer sheet is we put
the letter J for China we don't write
China we write J for China okay that's
how this works
so in fact at the end of this little
mock test that I'm about to give you
your answer sheet will look something
like this
now you might notice that I've used the
letter D for example twice now that is
also possible because one country might
do two things so just be careful with
that you can in other words you can use
the same country more than once okay
whoa tricky stuff you're probably
thinking I don't like this guy J and I
don't like this e to language and hi old
stuff but trust me by the end of this
you're going to be able to do this I'm
gonna walk you through it step by step
and at the end I'll show you the answers
and I'll show you why they were the way
they are something like that cool let's
do it guys
before we do it I've got to give you
some key tips key tips is this this is
good the statements follow the same
order as the text so statement one will
be found at the top of the passage
statement two it was the biggest
producer of films will be found
next maybe down so for example statement
one let's say we're focusing on
statement one this one here
it'll be found around here right
statement two will be found maybe down
here
statement three about here statement 4
down here maybe for statement five we
need to turn the page but the statements
follow the same order as the text that's
good
that's good right second key tip is this
identify key words or key phrases in the
statement and find them in the text for
example here of number five it made the
most money from avant-garde films so we
find this keyword avant-garde we scan
read the text we know where we're up to
roughly and we see the same word or we
see a synonym and we know exactly where
to find the answer so it's not too crazy
we can do this so let's go ahead and do
IELTS reading match features I'm gonna
time you you're going to have to read
very carefully because there's a lot of
distractors a lot of distracting answers
you can do this here we go you have two
minutes I think this is uh well
questions one two and possibly three and
four let's see how many you get in two
minutes from these two paragraphs then
we'll look at the next two paragraphs
your two minutes starts now
you
give you a tip you'll find the first
three answers here from these two
paragraphs
you
okay that's two minutes oh maybe that's
not enough time I may have
underestimated here just let me check
the answers how are you going are you
gonna need more time I'm gonna give you
another two minutes because I want you
to get this right right so maybe another
minute we'll see
you
ten seconds
all right let's move on to the next
paragraphs here so I think we've done
number one we've done number two we've
done number three so let's see how you
go here there's one more after this so
you might be doing four or five and
possibly six let's say you're doing I'll
give your tip you're doing four and five
here you got two minutes to find the
answer for four and five
you
okay do you need more time
you need more time typing more time into
the chat okay more time fine let's give
you another half a minute here woopsie
30 seconds more
you
ten seconds
okay here's the final two paragraphs so
we're finding the answers for number six
and number seven I know I told you that
they follow the same order but perhaps
number seven will become will come
before number six anyway the two answers
can be found in these two paragraphs
here here we go
you
okay I'll give you a little bit longer
there just another minute to check your
answers
you
ten seconds
and own or alte palmach on YouTube live
you're correct
six and seven are in the wrong order but
that might happen generally by and large
it's going to follow the same order as
the text ok those statements will follow
the same order as the text you may get a
little anomaly like 6 & 7 where it's the
other way around
but cool well done you've just done a
match features question in the IELTS
this is probably one of the more
complicated question types yes let's
have a look at the answers I'm going to
talk you through the answers and show
you why they are the way they are so it
helped other countries develop their own
film industry in other words which
country France Germany USA Denmark
Sweden Japan Russia Italy Britain or
China helped other countries develop
their own film industry
well the passage says it was above all
the French who were the most passionate
exporters of the new invention helping
to start cinema now that does not say
that it says the same thing but it uses
different words for example the
statement again says it helped other
countries develop their own film
industry the French were the most
passionate exporters of the new
invention helping to start cinema in
China Japan duh duh duh duh duh so the
answer to number one is a France so you
should have one a two it was the biggest
producer of films in other words which
country France Germany USA Denmark
Sweden Japan Russia Italy Britain or
China was the biggest producer of films
well it says here in the passage at the
top of paragraph two in the end it was
the United States that was to become and
remain the largest single market for
films by protecting their own market and
pursuing a vigorous export policy the
Americans achieved a dominant position
on the world market by the start of
first the first world war the
Center of filmmaking had moved westwards
to Hollywood and it was films from these
new Hollywood studios that flooded onto
the world film markets in the years
after the first world war and have done
so ever since it is definitely see us a
cool there's lots of little distracting
things in there but you have to read
past them number three it was first to
develop the feature film in other words
which country was the first country to
develop the feature film well this part
of the passage says the Italian industry
which had pioneered the feature film
with spectacular films like da da da da
da and da da da da da almost collapsed
so which was the first to develop the
feature film while Italy pioneered the
feature film
there's your synonym develop and pioneer
the answer is H Italy this is like a
game sure I'm enjoying this number four
it was responsible for creating stars
which country was responsible for
creating stars now remember you can use
the same country more than once let me
show you why you can do this it says in
B note you may use any letter more than
once so let's read this Hollywood films
appealed because they had better
constructive narratives the special
effects were more impressive and the
star system added a new dimension to
screen acting in other words the USA was
responsible for creating stars so we've
got another see there we've got four see
how are you going so far how many have
you got right so far what have you got
what have you got what have you got what
have you got yeah Oh Oh No an or an or
sorry bad pronunciation of your name my
apologies let's move on let's look at
number five which country made the most
money from avant-garde films well I told
you to look for key words there's a key
word there in the statement is
avant-garde in the
it says it was also at this time that
the avant-garde film first achieved
commercial success this time Thanks
almost exclusively to the French so a
France made the most money from
avant-garde films number six now this is
the odd one that came after number seven
which country made movies based more on
its own culture than outside influences
well right at the bottom now you'll
notice that we did not use any of this
paragraph here no answers came from this
paragraph and that is possible now we're
at number six and we're reading down
here which country made movies based on
its own culture rather than outside
influences Japan
we're a cinema developed based primarily
on traditional theatrical and to a
lesser extent other art forms and only
gradually adapted to Western influence
these two things say the same thing but
in different words
where's Japan here it's F so we're gonna
write F in here beautiful now we're up
to number seven it had a great influence
on the silent movies despite its size
now there's lots of names of countries
mentioned about silent movies but which
one was mentioned with regards to the
size of the country well it says Denmark
which played a role in the development
of silent cinema quite out of proportion
to their small population in other words
it had a great influence on silent
movies despite its size whereas Denmark
that is D so we were at 70 your answer
sheet should say this a CH CAF D please
into the comments below
put your scores out of seven what did
you get how many did you get right
Mohammed hwagok got them all right
Achmed Adel got them all right that's
awesome well done who else got them all
right let's have a little look in there
check what do we got what do we got what
do we got we got three four four
although we've got six six six six six
five four seven six six five four seven
five four seven pretty good well done
that's it's hard reading yeah it's hard
reading but also trying to negotiate the
question itself and putting the pieces
together that's that's tough that's
tough so well done this by the way was
an IELTS general reading so it's
slightly easier than the IELTS academic
reading but the question type is exactly
the same so whether you're doing general
or academic this was really good
practice for you and that's cool right
just before we go to Q&A guys if you
have any problems whatsoever with your
IELTS exam and you need some help or if
you're freaking out don't freak out go
to e to language comm we have a full
online course which teaches you methods
all of the overview lessons heaps and
heaps of practise material right also
you can practice with an e you can
upgrade for tutorials one-on-one
tutorials with ex IELTS examiner's to
check your writing or speaking or your
reading feedback on your speaking and
writing as well as well as you'll be
able to join the live classes every
Monday to Friday so that is cool as
heaps and heaps on offer e to language
right now though I will answer some
questions